Introduction
The STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit is designed as a complete demonstration and development platform for the
STMicroelectronics STM32WB5MMG module based on the Arm┬« Cortex┬«-M4 and Arm┬« Cortex┬«-M0+ cores.
The STM32 device is a multiprotocol wireless and ultra-low-power device embedding a powerful and ultra-low-power radio
compliant with the Bluetooth┬« LE SIG and IEEE 802.15.4-2011.
The hardware features of the Discovery kits are available for users to develop their applications: Audio, USB, user buttons, and
Bluetooth┬« LE. Extension connectors allow easy connection of an ARDUINO┬« board for a specific application.
ST-LINK/V2-1 is integrated on the board, as an embedded in-circuit debugger and programmer for the STM32 MCU and the
USB Virtual COM port bridge.
Figure 1. STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit
Picture is not contractual.
Discovery kit with STM32WB5MMG module
UM2825
User manual
UM2825 - Rev 4 - April 2025
For further information, contact your local STMicroelectronics sales office.
www.st.com
1 Features
ŌĆó STM32WB5MMG (1-Mbyte flash memory, 256-Kbyte SRAM, in module RF package)
ŌĆō Dual-core 32ŌĆæbit (Arm┬« Cortex┬«-M4 and dedicated M0+ CPU for real-time radio layer)
ŌĆō 2.4 GHz RF transceiver supporting Bluetooth┬« specification V5.4, 802.15.4 with Zigbee┬«, Thread,
and proprietary protocols
ŌĆó 0.96-inch 128├Ś64 OLED display
ŌĆó 128-Mbit Quad-SPI NOR flash memory
ŌĆó Temperature sensor
ŌĆó Accelerometer-gyroscope sensor
ŌĆó TimeŌĆæofŌĆæFlight and gestureŌĆædetection sensor
ŌĆó Digital microphone
ŌĆó RGB LED
ŌĆó Infrared LED
ŌĆó Three pushŌĆæbuttons (two users and one reset) and one touchkey button
ŌĆó Board connectors:
ŌĆō STMod+
ŌĆō ARDUINO┬« Uno V3 expansion connector
ŌĆō USB user with Micro-B connector
ŌĆō TAG10 10-pin footprint
ŌĆó Flexible power supply options: ST-LINK/V2-1 USB connector, 5 V delivered by ARDUINO┬« or external
connector, USB charger, or USB power
ŌĆó On-board ST-LINK/V2-1 debugger/programmer with USB re-enumeration capability: Virtual COM port and
debug port
ŌĆó Comprehensive free software libraries and examples available with the STM32CubeWB MCU Package
ŌĆó Support of a wide choice of Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) including IAR Embedded
Workbench┬«, MDK-ARM, and STM32CubeIDE
Note: For information on Bluetooth┬«, refer to the www.bluetooth.com website
Note: Arm is a registered trademark of Arm Limited (or its subsidiaries) in the US and/or elsewhere.
UM2825
Features
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 2/45
2 Ordering information
To order the STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit, refer to Table 1. Additional information is available from the
datasheet and reference manual of the target STM32.
Table 1. Ordering information
Order code Board reference Target STM32
STM32WB5MM-DK MB1292(1) STM32WB5MMG
1. Subsequently called main board in the rest of the documentation.
2.1 Codification
The meaning of the codification is explained in Table 2.
Table 2. Codification explanation
STM32XXYYM-DK Description Example: STM32WB5MM-DK
XX MCU series in STM32 32-bit Arm Cortex MCUs STM32WB series
YY MCU product line in the series STM32WBxM Modules line (5M module version)
DK Discovery kit Discovery kit
UM2825
Ordering information
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 3/45
3 Development environment
3.1 System requirements
ŌĆó MultiŌĆæOS support: Windows┬« 10 or 11, Linux┬« 64-bit, or macOS┬«
ŌĆó USB Type-A or USB Type-C┬« to Micro-B cable
Note: macOS┬« is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries and regions.
Linux┬« is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds.
Windows is a trademark of the Microsoft group of companies.
3.2 Development toolchains
ŌĆó IAR Systems┬« - IAR Embedded Workbench┬«(1)
ŌĆó Keil┬« - MDK-ARM(1)
ŌĆó STMicroelectronics - STM32CubeIDE
1. On Windows┬« only.
3.3 Demonstration software
The demonstration software, included in the STM32Cube MCU Package corresponding to the on-board
microcontroller, is preloaded in the STM32 flash memory for easy demonstration of the device peripherals in
standalone mode. The latest versions of the demonstration source code and associated documentation can be
downloaded from www.st.com.
3.4 EDA resources
All board design resources, including schematics, EDA databases, manufacturing files, and the bill of materials,
are available from the STM32WB5MM-DK product page at www.st.com.
UM2825
Development environment
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 4/45
4 Conventions
Table 3 provides the conventions used for the ON and OFF settings in the present document.
Table 3. ON/OFF convention
Convention Definition
Jumper JPx ON Jumper fitted
Jumper JPx OFF Jumper not fitted
Jumper JPx [1-2] Jumper fitted between pin 1 and pin 2
Solder bridge SBx ON SBx connections closed by 0 ╬® resistor
Solder bridge SBx OFF SBx connections left open
Resistor Rx ON Resistor soldered
Resistor Rx OFF Resistor not soldered
Capacitor Cx ON Capacitor soldered
Capacitor Cx OFF Capacitor not soldered
UM2825
Conventions
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 5/45
5 Safety recommendations
5.1 Targeted audience
This product targets users with at least basic electronics or embedded software development knowledge like
engineers, technicians, or students.
This board is not a toy and is not suited for use by children.
5.2 Handling the board
This product contains a bare printed circuit board and as with all products of this type, the user must be careful
about the following points:
ŌĆó The connection pins on the board might be sharp. Be careful when handling the board to avoid hurting
yourself.
ŌĆó This board contains staticŌĆæsensitive devices. To avoid damaging it, handle the board in an ESDŌĆæproof
environment.
ŌĆó While powered, do not touch the electric connections on the board with fingers or anything conductive. The
board operates at a voltage level that is not dangerous, but components might be damaged when shorted.
ŌĆó Do not put any liquid on the board. Avoid operating the board close to water or at a high humidity level.
ŌĆó Do not operate the board if dirty or dusty.
5.3 Laser safety consideration
The TimeŌĆæofŌĆæFlight and gesture-detection sensor contains a laser emitter and the corresponding drive circuitry.
The laser output is designed to remain within Class 1 laser safety limits under all reasonably foreseeable
conditions including single faults in compliance with IEC 60825-1:2014 (third edition). The laser output remains
within Class 1 limits as long as the STMicroelectronics recommended device settings are used and the operating
conditions specified in the STM32WB datasheets are respected. The laser output power must not be increased by
any means and no optics are used to focus the laser beam. Figure 2 shows the warning label for Class 1 laser
products.
Figure 2. Class 1 laser product label
UM2825
Safety recommendations
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 6/45
6 Getting started
This section describes how to start quickly development using the STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit.
To use the product, the user must accept the evaluation product license agreement from the www.st.com/epla
webpage.
Before the first use, make sure that no damage occurred to the board during shipment:
ŌĆó All socketed components are firmly secured in their sockets.
ŌĆó No component is loose in the board blister.
The Discovery kit is an easy-to-use Discovery kit to evaluate and start quickly development with an STM32
microcontroller in an RF module package:
1. Check jumper positions on board: JP1 and JP5 ON, JP2 (power source) on USB MCU.
2. Install ST Bluetooth┬« LE sensor mobile application on a Bluetooth┬« LEŌĆæcompatible mobile device from the App
Store or Google Play.
3. On the host PC, any freeware or commercial audio recording software can be used to interface with the
Discovery board. For example, Audacity┬« is an openŌĆæsource, cross-platform program for recording and audio
editing, available from https://www.audacityteam.org/download.
4. Connect the Discovery board to a PC with a USB Type-A to Micro-B cable through the USB USER connector
(CN6). Windows automatically recognizes the board as a standard microphone (found in the Windows device
manager as an STM32 audio streaming in FS mode). As soon as BLE Advertising appears on the Discovery
display, the board is ready to connect.
5. Use the ST Bluetooth┬« LE sensor mobile application to detect the STM32WB5MM-DK (BVL-WB1) with ST
Bluetooth┬« 00:80:E1:26:XX:XX device address and connect to it. The text BLE Connected appears on the
Discovery board display, while the BlueVoice FullDuplex page is shown on the mobile application.
6. Pushing the B1 button on the board starts the audio acquisition and streaming from the Discovery on the
application (Audio TX on the display). Audio can be heard from the smartphone speaker.
7. Enabling the Start switch on the App starts audio streaming from the smartphone to the Discovery (Audio RX
on the display). Open Audacity on the host PC. To start an audio recording, check first if the audio input device
is STM32 AUDIO streaming and then press the recording button. To listen to the received audio while
recording, go to Edit’āĀPreferences’āĀRecording and check the Software playthrough of input.
8. A full-duplex communication is performed if the streaming is enabled on both sides. Full-duplex message
appears on the Discovery display.
9. For more details, refer to the user manual Getting started with the STM32Cube function pack for STM32WB
MCU featuring advanced audio streaming over Bluetooth 5.0 using Opus codec (UM2614) of FP-AUD-
BVLINKWB1, together with the demonstration software version v.2.0.0 or higher.
UM2825
Getting started
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 7/45
7 Hardware layout and configuration
The STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit is designed around the STM32WB5MMG RF module that includes an
STM32WB55VG Bluetooth┬« LE microcontroller, a ceramic antenna, two crystals, and peripheral components. The
hardware block diagram in Figure 3 illustrates the connections between the STM32WB5MMG RF module and the
peripheral components (Quad-SPI flash memory, OLED display, USB OTG HS and FS connectors, USART,
audio, ARDUINO┬« Uno V3, STMod+ shields, and embedded ST-LINK). Figure 4 and Figure 5 show the location
of the main components on both sides of the Discovery board. Figure 6 shows the STM32WB5MM-DK board
mechanical dimensions.
7.1 Hardware block diagram
Figure 3. STM32WB5MM-DK hardware block diagram
DT54483V2
Flash memory QSPI
GPIO
RGB LED PWM LED driver
IR LED Buffer
USART1 STLINK/V2
SWD
GPIOs User push-button
STM32WB5MMG
I2C3 ToF sensor
Temperature sensor
Accelero/gyro sensor
SAI1
TSC Touchkey
MEMS microphone
GPIOs
USB
Micro-B
User push-button
OLED display SPI1
ARDUINO┬«
GPIOs
GPIOs
SPI2
STMod+
LPUART1
GPIOs
DPDT
STM32WB5MM-DK
ON
OFF
JP5
JP4
Micro-B
Tag-ConnectŌäó
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 8/45
7.2 Hardware board layout
Figure 4. STM32WB5MM-DK PCB layout (top view)
DT54484V2
STM32WB5MMG (U1)
Touchkey (TS1)
USB_USER (CN6)
STMod+ (CN5)
GND access
RESET button (B3)
Tag-ConnectŌäó (CN7)
Time-of-Flight sensor (U6)
3D accelerometer-gyroscope sensor (U5) MEMS microphone (U7)
Temperature sensor (U4)
USB_STLINK (CN11)
Infrared LED (LDIR1)
OLED display (U19)
RGB LED (LD4)
Quad-SPI flash memory (U8)
ST_LINK MCU (U15)
User push-buttons (B1 and B2)
5V-source selector (JP2)
ST-LINK RESET (JP3)
External supply (CN8)
5V-enable LED (LD2)
VDD jumper (JP1)
GPIO_SELECT2 configuration jumpers (J4 and JP5)
USB_STLINK power fault LED (LD1)
USB_STLINK status LED (LD3)
PB0/PB1 (CN16)
Figure 5. STM32WB5MM-DK PCB layout (bottom view)
DT54485V1
USB_USER (CN6)
STMod+ (CN5)
GND access
USB_STLINK (CN11)
Infrared LED (LDIR1)
PWM RGB LED driver (U18)
Note area to write information such as comments
on the board, modification, or firmware version
ARDUINO┬« Digital 0-7 (CN4)
ARDUINO┬« Analog (CN3)
ARDUINO┬« Digital 8-15 (CN1)
ARDUINO┬« Power (CN2)
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 9/45
7.3 Mechanical drawing
Figure 6. STM32WB5MM-DK board mechanical dimensions (top view, in millimeters)
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 10/45
7.4 Embedded ST-LINK/V2-1
The ST-LINK/V2-1 programming and debugging tool is integrated into the STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit. For
information about debugging and programming features refer to the user manual ST-LINK/V2 in-circuit debugger/
programmer for STM8 and STM32 (UM1075), which describes in detail all the ST-LINK/V2 features.
The additional features supported on the ST-LINK/V2-1 are:
ŌĆó USB software re-enumeration
ŌĆó Virtual COM port interface on USB
ŌĆó Mass storage interface on USB
ŌĆó USB power management request for more than 100 mA current on USB (limited to 300 mA for this board)
The following feature is no longer supported on the ST-LINK/V2-1:
ŌĆó Application voltage lower than 3 V
7.4.1 Drivers
The ST-LINK/V2-1 requires a dedicated USB driver, which, for Windows┬« 7 and Windows┬« 8, is found at
www.st.com. For Windows┬« 10 and Windows┬« 11, it is not necessary to install the driver, as the ST-LINK is
automatically identified.
In case the STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit is connected to the PC before the driver is installed, some
Discovery board interfaces might be declared as Unknown in the PC device manager. In this case, the user must
install the dedicated driver files, and update the driver of the connected device from the device manager as shown
in Figure 7.
Note: Prefer using the USB Composite Device handle for a full recovery.
Figure 7. USB Composite Device
7.4.2 ST-LINK/V2-1 firmware upgrade
The ST-LINK/V2-1 embeds a firmware upgrade mechanism for the in-place upgrade through the USB port. As the
firmware might evolve during the lifetime of the ST-LINK/V2-1 product (for example new functionalities, bug fixes,
support for new microcontroller families), it is recommended to visit the www.st.com website before starting to use
the STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit and periodically, to stay up-to-date with the latest firmware version.
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 11/45
7.5 Power supply
7.5.1 General description
The STM32WB5MMG module embedded in this STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit is always supplied by 3V3 but
the board proposes a lot of possibilities to supply the module. The supply source can come from USB or
ARDUINO┬« connectors, or from an external power supply. Figure 8 describes the board power tree. Moreover,
this figure also shows the default state of the jumpers and solder bridges.
Figure 8. STM32WB5MM-DK power tree
Note: In case an external voltage supply is used to power the STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit, this DC power source
must comply with the EN 62368-1:2014+A11:2017 standard and must be safety extralow voltage (SELV) with
limited power capability.
7.5.2 7 to 12 V power supply
The STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit can be powered with a 7 to 12 V DC power source. There are two
accesses for this type of level:
ŌĆó VIN pin of the ARDUINO┬« connector (CN2-8). It is possible to apply until +12 V on this pin or use an
ARDUINO┬« shield, which can deliver this type of voltage on the VIN pin.
ŌĆó External input (CN8).
Caution: In this case, paying attention to the configuration of the jumpers and solder bridges is very important.
Verify this configuration in Table 4.
These two sources are connected to a linear lowŌĆædrop voltage regulator (U9). The 5 V output of this regulator is a
potential source of the 5V signal. Refer to Section 7.5.3 for the details.
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 12/45
7.5.3 5 V power supply
A 5 V DC power source can power the STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit. The 5V signal can come from several
connectors:
ŌĆó 5V_USB_STLK connected to CN11 (default configuration for the supply of the board). This connector is
dedicated to accessing the ST-LINK/V2 and the Virtual COM port and can supply power from the host
computer. It is also possible to connect a USB charger to this connector. In this case, the ST-LINK and the
Virtual COM port cannot be accessible.
ŌĆó 5V_USB_MCU connected to the user USB. This USB port is directly connected to the STM32WB5MMG as
a USB port. The same remark applies to 5V_USB-STLK. The host computer or a USB charger can provide
the supply.
ŌĆó External input (CN8). Be careful, in this case, the state of the jumpers and the solder bridges is very
important. Refer to Section 7.5.2 for details.
ŌĆó 7-12 V input through the U9 voltage regulator. Refer to Section 7.5.2 for details.
The JP2 jumper JP2 selects the 5V source. Table 4 shows the configuration for the selected source.
Caution: Depending on the current needed on the devices connected to the USB port, and the board itself, power
limitations can prevent the system from working as expected. The user must ensure that the STM32WB5MM-DK
Discovery kit is supplied with an adequate power source depending on the needed current.
Table 4. JP2 power supply selector description
Jumper/solder bridge Setting Configuration(1)
JP2
5 V supply
source selector
STM32WB5MM-DK is supplied through the
USB_STLINK Micro-B USB receptacle (CN11).
STM32WB5MM-DK is supplied through the
USB_USER Micro-B receptacle (CN6).
STM32WB5MM-DK is supplied through
ARDUINO┬« (CN2ŌĆæ8) or CN8 (refer to the
configuration details on the present power supply
section).
STM32WB5MM-DK is supplied through CN8
directly (refer to the configuration details in the
present power supply section).
1. The default configuration is in bold.
When using 5V_USB_STLINK and JP2 [1-2] is ON, the sequence is specific. Only STM32F103 is supplied in the
beginning. If the USB enumeration succeeds, the 5V_USB_STLINK power is enabled by asserting the PWR_ENn
signal from STM32F103CBT6. This pin is connected to an STMPS2141STR power switch, which supplies the rest
of the board. This power switch also features a current limitation to protect the PC in case of currents exceeding
300 mA.
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 13/45
7.5.4 Current measurement
As the device handles lowŌĆæpower features, it might be worth measuring the current consumed by the
STM32WB5MMG module. To ease this measurement, there are two possibilities:
1. Measure the supply current of the STM32WB5MMG module using an ammeter in place of the JP1 jumper. In
this case, all supply sources can be used except the AVDD coming from the ARDUINO┬« connector. Figure 9
shows the configuration:
Figure 9. Current measurement with an ammeter
2. Or use an external power supply with current measurement capability. In this case, the JP1 jumper must be
removed and the supply connected to pin 2 of JP1. Refer to Figure 10. The supply voltage must be 3.3 V and
the AVDD input (CN1-8) must not be used during this measurement.
Figure 10. Current measurement with an external power supply
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 14/45
7.6 Clock sources
7.6.1 HSE clock reference
The high-speed clock (HSE) of the STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit is embedded in the STM32WB5MMG
module. It uses a 32 MHz crystal oscillator. The HSE oscillator is trimmed during module manufacturing.
7.6.2 LSE clock reference
The lowŌĆæspeed clock (LSE) of the STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit is embedded in the STM32WB5MMG
module. The frequency of the LSE is 32.774 kHz.
7.7 Reset sources
The reset signal of STM32WB5MMG is active LOW. The internal pull-up resistor forces the RST signal to a HIGH
level.
The sources of reset are the following:
ŌĆó Reset push-button small black button (B3)
ŌĆó Embedded ST-LINK/V2-1
ŌĆó ARDUINO┬« connector (CN2ŌĆæ3), reset from the ARDUINO┬« board
ŌĆó TAG10 TagŌĆæConnectŌäó connector (CN7ŌĆæ10)
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 15/45
7.8 Board functions
7.8.1 128 ├Ś 64ŌĆæpixel OLED display
The STM32WB5MM-DK board embeds an OLED display. It is a 128 ├Ś 64ŌĆæpixel OLED display panel matrix, with
high contrast and an SPIŌĆædriven interface to display messages and user menus. An embedded controller inside
the display manages the OLED panel matrix.
7.8.2 Quad-SPI NOR flash memory (U8)
The STM32WB5MM-DK board embeds a 128ŌĆæMbit Quad-SPI NOR flash memory device (S25FL128SDSMFV001
from Cypress), which is connected to an STM32WB5MMG dedicated Quad-SPI interface described in Table 5.
Table 5. Quad-SPI NOR flash memory (U8) connection with STM32WB5MMG
Quad-SPI memory pin
number
Quad-SPI memory pin
name STM32WB5MMG pin number STM32WB5MMG signal name
7 /CS 70 (PD3) QSPI_BK_NCS
16 SCK 56 (PA3) QSPI_BK_SCK
15 IO0 11 (PB9) QSPI_BK_IO0
8 IO1 80 (PD5) QSPI_BK_IO1
9 IO2 81 (PD6) QSPI_BK_IO2
1 IO3 67 (PD7) QSPI_BK_IO3
7.8.3 Virtual COM port
ST-LINK/V2-1 offers a USB Virtual COM port bridge. This feature allows access to the STM32WB5MMG USART1
by the USB_STLINK connector (CN11).
By default, this STM32WB5MMG USART1 interface is connected to the UART2 port of the STM32F103 ST-LINK/
V2-1 MCU.
Table 6. UART interface pinout description
STM32WB5MMG CN10 STM32F103
USART1 Rx (PB7/pin 18) Pin 1 STLINK_TX: UART2 Tx (PA2/pin 12)
USART1 Tx (PB6/pin 39) Pin 2 STLINK_RX: UART2 Rx (PA3/pin 13)
7.8.4 MEMS microphone
A MEMS microphone is connected through an SAI interface to the STM32WB5MMG module. SAI1_CK2 and
SAI1_DI2 are connected to the microphone and ensure the recording.
Table 7. MEMSŌĆæSTM32WB5MMG SAI interface
STM32WB5MMG MEMS
SAI1_CK2 (PA8/pin 50) CLK, clock in (pin 3)
SAI1_DI2 (PA9/pin 51) DOUT, PDM data out (pin 4)
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 16/45
7.8.5 LEDs
Description
Five LEDs on the top side of the STM32WB5MM-DK board help the user during the application development.
Figure 11. LEDs location
DT54498V1
Infrared LED (LDIR1)RGB LED (LD4)
5V-enable LED (LD2)
USB_STLINK power fault LED (LD1)USB_STLINK status LED (LD3)
ŌĆó LD1: This red LED indicates that the current distribution could not be performed as expected.
ŌĆó LD2: This LED turns green when the 5 V is available. Refer to Section 7.5.3 to select the 5 V source.
ŌĆó LD3 COM: LD3 is a bicolor LED, which default status is red, which turns to green to indicate that
communication is in progress between the PC and the ST-LINK/V2-1, as follows:
ŌĆō Slow blinking red/OFF: At power-on, before USB initialization
ŌĆō Fast blinking red/OFF: After the first correct communication between PC and ST-LINK/V2-1
(enumeration)
ŌĆō Red ON: When initialization between PC and ST-LINK/V2-1 is successfully finished
ŌĆō Green ON: After successful target communication initialization
ŌĆō Blinking red/green: During communication with the target
ŌĆō Green ON: Communication finished and OK
ŌĆō Orange ON: Communication failure
ŌĆó LD4: This LED is an RGB LED. It is available for the user application.
ŌĆó LDIR1: This LED allows the transmission of an infrared radiation signal.
RGB LED
The resources coming from STM32WB5MMG are shared between the RGB and IR LEDs. It is not possible to use
them simultaneously. The selection is done by JP4 and JP5 jumpers.
To use the RGB LED, JP5 must be ON and JP4 OFF. In this configuration, GPIO_SELECT2 (PH1) is the chip
select for this RGB device on SPI1.
The RGB LED is driven by the TLC59731 PWM LED driver from Texas Instruments.
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 17/45
Infrared (IR) LED
The resources coming from STM32WB5MMG are shared between the RGB and IR LEDs. It is not possible to use
them simultaneously. The selection is done by JP4 and JP5 jumpers.
To use the IR LED, JP4 must be ON and JP5 OFF. In this configuration, GPIO_SELECT2 (PH1) is the chip select
for this IR transmission. PB9 is in charge of the IR modulation. This GPIO is shared with the Quad-SPI flash
memory. It is possible to use the flash memory and IR LED on the same application but not exactly at the same
time.
The TIM16 and TIM17 internal timers drive the IR LED. The schematic proposal does not use the IR_OUT
feature. A firmware example is available in the firmware package.
7.8.6 Push-buttons
Description
The STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit provides three buttons:
ŌĆó User pushŌĆæbutton (B1)
ŌĆó User pushŌĆæbutton (B2)
ŌĆó Reset pushŌĆæbutton (B3), used to reset STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit.
Reset pushŌĆæbutton
B3 is a small pushŌĆæbutton dedicated to the hardware reset of the STM32WB5MM-DK. It is separated from the
other pushŌĆæbuttons to avoid mishandling.
User pushŌĆæbuttons
There are two pushŌĆæbuttons available for the user application. They are connected to PC12 and PC13. It is
possible to use them for GPIO reading or to wake up the device.
Table 8. Physical user interface I/O configuration (pushŌĆæbuttons)
Name I/O Available wake-up
User1 pushŌĆæbutton (B1) PC12 WKUP3
User2 pushŌĆæbutton (B2) PC13 WKUP2
7.8.7 Touch sensor
The STM32WB5MM-DK board embeds a touch sensor. The touch sensor works with the charge and discharge of
a capacitor. Touching the round panel with a finger charges a capacitor. Once the capacitor is charged at VDD,
the charge is transferred to another capacitor, called the sampling capacitor.
Two groups of I/Os are connected to use it:
Table 9. Physical user interface I/O configuration (touch sensor)
I/O group I/O Configuration
Shield group 4 PC6 TSC_G4_IO1
PC7 TSC_G4_IO2
Touchkey group 6 PD10 TSC_G6_IO1
PD11 TSC_G6_IO2
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 18/45
7.9 Embedded sensors
7.9.1 I2C interface
The STM32WB5MM-DK embedded sensors are connected to the STM32WB5MMG module with an I2C bus. The
TimeŌĆæofŌĆæFlight (ToF), accelerometer/gyroscope, and temperature sensors are connected to the STM32WB5MMG
I2C3 bus.
Table 10. STM32WB5MMG I2C
STM32WB5MMG port Description
PB13 (pin 35) I2C3_SCL
PB11 (pin 46) I2C3_SDA
The address is a 7-bit address with an additional R/W bit (HIGH for reading, LOW for writing). Table 11 describes
the different address to R/W action for each component:
Table 11. Sensor I2C addresses
Device Action Address
Accelerometer-gyroscope sensor
Read 0b11010111 (D7h)
Write 0b11010110 (D6h)
Temperature sensor
Read 0b01110001 (71h)
Write 0b01110000 (70h)
TimeŌĆæofŌĆæFlight sensor
Read 0b01010011 (53h)
Write 0b01010010 (52h)
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 19/45
7.9.2 TimeŌĆæofŌĆæFlight (ToF) sensor (U6)
U6 is a device that allows measuring the TimeŌĆæofŌĆæFlight (ToF) of a laser beam. It is connected to the
STM32WB5MMG through the I2C interface.
This sensor can make a distance measurement and obstacle detection of two meters and 1DŌĆægesture recognition.
Figure 12. Direction, angle, and side operating
Table 12. TimeŌĆæofŌĆæFlight sensor (U6) I2C address
Device Action Address
Time-of-Flight sensor
Read 0b01010011 (53h)
Write 0b01010010 (52h)
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 20/45
7.9.3 3D accelerometer and 3D gyroscope sensor (U5)
U5 is connected to STM32WB5MMG through the I2C interface.
U5 is a system-in-package featuring a highŌĆæperformance 3D digital accelerometer and 3D digital gyroscope
tailored for Industry 4.0 applications.
Figure 13. 3D direction for acceleration and angular rate
Figure 14. 3D accelerometer and 3D gyroscope (U5) pin 1 location
DT54497V1
Pin 1
Table 13. AcceleratorŌĆægyroscope sensor (U5) I2C address
Device Action Address
AcceleratorŌĆægyroscope sensor
Read 0b11010111 (D7h)
Write 0b11010110 (D6h)
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 21/45
7.9.4 Temperature sensor (U4)
U4 is a device that measures ambient temperature. It is connected to the STM32WB5MMG through the I2C
interface.
Table 14. Temperature sensor (U4) I2C address
Device Action Address
Temperature sensor
Read 0b01110001 (71h)
Write 0b01110000 (70h)
UM2825
Hardware layout and configuration
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 22/45
8 Board connectors
The following connectors are implemented on the STM32WB5MM-DK board and described in the next
subsections:
ŌĆó ST-LINK/V2-1 USB Micro-B connector (CN11)
ŌĆó USB FS Micro-B connector (CN6)
ŌĆó STMod+ connector (CN5)
ŌĆó TAG10 TagŌĆæConnectŌäó footprint (CN7)
ŌĆó ARDUINO┬« Uno V3 connector (CN1, CN2, CN3, and CN4)
8.1 ST-LINK/V2-1 USB Micro-B connector (CN11)
The main function of this connector is to connect the STM32WB5MM-DK embedded ST-LINK/V2-1 to the PC for
programming and debugging purposes. It can supply the board (refer to Section 7.5: Power supply).
The connector is a standard USB Micro-B connector.
The related pinout for the ST-LINK USB Micro-B connector (CN11) is listed in Table 15.
Table 15. USB Micro-B connector (CN11) pinout
Pin number Pin name Signal name Function
1 VBUS 5V_USB_ST_LINK VBUS power
2 DM USB_STLK_N DM
3 DP USB_STLK_P DP
4 ID - -
5 GND GND Ground
8.2 USB FS Micro-B connector (CN6)
The STM32WB5MMG module handles a USB full-speed peripheral, available on the USB Micro-B connector
(CN6). It can communicate with a USB host as a USB device and can supply the board. Refer to Section 7.5 for
more details.
The related pinout of the USB Micro-B connector (CN6) is listed in Table 16.
Table 16. USB Micro-B connector (CN6) pinout
Pin number Pin name Signal name Function
1 VBUS 5V_USB_MCU VBUS power
2 DM USB_N DM
3 DP USB_P DP
4 ID - -
5 GND GND Ground
UM2825
Board connectors
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 23/45
8.3 STMod+ connector (CN5)
The STMod+ standard connector (CN5) is on the STM32WB5MM-DK board to support flexibility in a small form
factor application.
Figure 15 shows the pinout of the STMod+ connector.
Caution: Check the orientation before plugging the fanout or expansion board. An error in orientation can generate
important damage to the STM32WB5MM-DK main board and the daughterboard.
Figure 15. STMod+ connector (CN5)
DT55001V1
1
11
2010
Figure 16. Top silkscreen STMod+ connector Figure 17. Bottom silkscreen STMod+ connector
UM2825
Board connectors
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 24/45
Table 17. STMod+ connector (CN5) pinout
Pin number STM32WB5MMG pin Function
1 PD0
PA6
SPI2_NSS
LPUART1_CTS
2 PD4
PB5
SPI2_MOSI (1)
LPUART1_TXD
3 PC2
PC0
SPI2_MISO (1)
LPUART1_RXD
4 PD1
PB12
SPI2_SCK
LPUART1_RTS
5 GND Ground
6 +5 V Power
7 PB8 I2C1_SCL
8 PB15 SPI2_MOSI (2)
9 PB14 SPI2_MISO (2)
10 PA10 I2C1_SDA
11 PE3 INT
12 PD8 STMOD+_RESET
13 PA0 ADC1_IN5
14 PA15 PWM (TIM2_CH1)
15 +5 V Power
16 GND Ground
17 PC11 GPIO
18 PC10 GPIO
19 PA5 GPIO
ADC1_IN10
20 PC1 GPIO
ADC1_IN12
UM2825
Board connectors
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 25/45
8.4 TAG10 TagŌĆæConnectŌäó footprint (CN7)
Section 7.4 presents the ST-LINK default debugging and programming tool. However, it is possible to use another
debugging and programming tool through the TagŌĆæConnectŌäó in its TAG10 10ŌĆæpin version.
Figure 18. TagŌĆæConnectŌäó footprint (CN7) pinout
DT54494V1
Fixing hole
Fixing holes
1
5 6
10
Table 18. TAG10 TagŌĆæConnectŌäó footprint (CN7) pinout
Pin number Pin name Signal name STM32WB5MMG pin Function
1 3V3_STLK 3V3 - Reference level
2 TAG_SWDIO SWDIO PA13 Serial wire data I/O
3 GND - - Ground
4 TAG_SWCLK SWCLK PA14 Serial wire clock
5 GND - - Ground
6 TAG_SWO SWO PB3 Serial wire output
7 NC - - -
8 NC - - -
9 NC - - -
10 TAG_NRST /Reset NRST Reset
If TagŌĆæConnectŌäó is used, it is very important to disable the embedded ST-LINK to avoid signal conflict between
this ST-LINK and the external tool. To disable the embedded ST-LINK, it is only necessary to set the STM32F103
in reset mode, with the JP3 jumper ON.
UM2825
Board connectors
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 26/45
To benefit from this connection, it is necessary to use the TC2050-IDC-NL accessory cable shown in Figure 19.
Figure 19. TC2050-IDC-NL cable
8.5 ARDUINO┬« Uno V3 connector (CN1, CN2, CN3, and CN4)
8.5.1 Description
ARDUINO┬« Uno V3 extension socket is located on the bottom side of the board. It is built around CN1, CN2,
CN3, and CN4 standard connectors. Most shields designed for ARDUINO┬« can fit with Discovery kits to offer
flexibility in small form factor applications.
Figure 20. ARDUINO┬« Uno connectors and ARDUINO┬« shield location
DT54499V1
ARDUINO┬« Digital 15-8 (CN1)
ARDUINO┬« Analog (CN3)ARDUINO┬« Power (CN2)
ARDUINO┬« Digital 7-0 (CN4)
ARDUINO┬«
shield
location
UM2825
Board connectors
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 27/45
8.5.2 ARDUINO┬« operating voltage
The ARDUINO┬« Uno V3 connector supports 5 V, 3.3 V, and VDD for I/O compatibility.
Warning: Do not supply 3.3 V or 5 V from the ARDUINO┬« shield. Supplying 3.3 V or 5 V from the
ARDUINO┬« shield could damage the STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit.
Furthermore, if it is necessary to supply the STM32WB5MM-DK board with the ARDUINO┬« connector, the VIN
dedicated pin is available to supply the board directly. For more information on this feature, refer to
Section 7.5.2: 7 to 12 V power supply.
8.5.3 ARDUINO┬« interface and pinout
Figure 21 shows the position of the ARDUINO┬« shield when it is plugged into STM32WB5MM-DK with the pinout.
The pinout shown in this figure corresponds to standard ARDUINO┬« naming. To find the correspondence with the
STM32, refer to Table 19.
Figure 21. ARDUINO┬« pinout location
DT55000V1
ARDUINO┬« Digital 15-8 (CN1)
ARDUINO┬« Analog (CN3)ARDUINO┬« Power (CN2)
ARDUINO┬« Digital 7-0 (CN4)
ARDUINO┬«
shield
location
A5
A4
A3
A2
A1
A0
D0
D1
D2
D3
D4
D5
D6
D7
D8
D15
D14
D9
D10
D11
D12
D13
GND
AVDD
VIN
GND
GND
5V
3V3
NRST
IOREF
NC
UM2825
Board connectors
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 28/45
Table 19. ARDUINO┬« connector pinout
Left connectors Right connectors
Connector Pin number Pin name MCU pin Function Function MCU pin Pin name Pin number Connector
I2C1_SCL PB8 ARD_D15 10
CN1 Digital
I2C1_SDA PA10 ARD_D14 9
VDDA - AVDD 8
Ground - GND 7
CN2 Power
1 NC - NC (reserved
for the test)
SPI1_SCK PA1 ARD_D13 6
2 3V3 (IOREF) - IOREF 3V3 SPI1_MISO PB4 ARD_D12 5
3 NRST NRST NRST SPI1_MOSI/
TIM17_CH1
PA7 ARD_D11 4
4 3V3 - 3.3 V SPI1_NSS PA4 ARD_D10 3
5 5V - 5 V GPIO/
TIM1_CH2
PD15 ARD_D9 2
6 GND - Ground GPIO PD13 ARD_D8 1
7 GND - Ground
8 VIN - External supply
input (+12 V)
GPIO PB2 ARD_D7 8
CN4 Digital
GPIO/
TIM16_CH1
PE0 ARD_D6 7
CN3 Analog
1 A0 PC3 ADC1_IN4 GPIO/
TIM2_CH3
PB10 ARD_D5 6
2 A1 PA2 ADC1_IN7 GPIO PE3 ARD_D4 5
3 A2 PA5 ADC1_IN10 GPIO/
TIM1_CH1
PD14 ARD_D3 4
4 A3 PC1 ADC1_IN2 GPIO PD12 ARD_D2 3
5 A4 PC4 ADC1_IN13 LPUART1_TX PB5 ARD_D1 2
6 A5 PC5 ADC1_IN14 LPUART1_RX PC0 ARD_D0 1
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 29/45
UM2825
Board connectors
9 STM32WB5MM-DK I/O assignment
Table 20. STM32WB5MM-DK I/O assignment
Pin number Pin name Assignment on STM32WB5MM-DK
1 PA2 ADC1_IN7 (ARDUINO┬« A1)
2 PA1 SPI1_SCK (ARDUINO┬« D13)
3 PA0 ADC1_IN5 (STMod+ pin 13)
7 PC3 ADC1_IN4 (ARDUINO┬« A0)
8 PC2 SPI2_MISO (STMod+ pin 3)
9 PC1 ADC1_IN2 (STMod+ pin 20 and ARDUINO┬« A3)
11 PB9 QUADSPI_BK1_IO0 or IR LED control
12 PC0 LPUART1_RX (STMod+ pin 3 and ARDUINO┬« D0)
13 PH3-BOOT0 BOOT0 (Pull-down by default, connected to CN13)
14 PB8 I2C1_SCL (STMod+ pin 7 and ARDUINO┬« D15)
18 PB7 USART1_RX (VCP ST-LINK)
19 PB5 LPUART1_TX (STMod+ on pin 2 and ARDUINO┬« D1)
20 PB4 SPI1_MISO (SPI OLED display, ARDUINO┬« D11)
21 PB3 SWO (ST-LINK)
22 PC10 GPIO (STMod+ pin18)
23 PC11 GPIO (STMod+ pin 17)
24 PC12 User pushŌĆæbutton B1 (WKUP3)
25 PA13 SWDIO (ST-LINK)
26 PA14 SWCLK (ST-LINK)
27 PA15 TIM2_CH1/PWM (STMod+ pin 14)
28 PA10 I2C1_SDA (STMod+ pin 10 and ARDUINO┬« D14)
29 PA12 USB_DP
30 PA11 USB_DM
33 PD0 SPI2_NSS (STMod+ pin 1)
34 PD1 SPI2_SCK (STMod+ pin 4)
35 PB13 I2C3_SCL (MEMS sensors)
36 PC6 TSC_G4_IO1 (Touchkey)
37 PB14 SPI2_MISO (STMod+ pin 9)
38 PB15 SPI2_MOSI (STMod+ pin 8)
39 PB6 USART1_TX (VCP ST-LINK)
40 PC13 User pushŌĆæbutton B2 (WKUP2)
41 PB12 LPUART1_RTS (STMod+ pin 4)
42 PE4 GPIO (ARDUINO┬« D4)
45 PC5 ADC1_IN14 (ARDUINO┬« A5)
46 PB11 I2C3_SDA (MEMS sensors)
47 PB10 TIM2_CH3 (ARDUINO┬« D5)
48 PB2 GPIO (ARDUINO┬« D7)
UM2825
STM32WB5MM-DK I/O assignment
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 30/45
Pin number Pin name Assignment on STM32WB5MM-DK
49 PC4 ADC1_IN13 (ARDUINO┬« A4)
50 PA8 SAI1_CK2 (Digital microphone)
51 PA9 SAI1_DI2 (Digital microphone)
52 PA7 SPI1_MOSI (SPI OLED display/ARDUINO┬« D1/RGB LED driver) *
53 PA6 LPUART_CTS (STMod+ pin 1)
54 PA5 ADC1_IN10 (STMod+ pin 19 and ARDUINO┬« D10)
55 PA4 SPI1_NSS (ARDUINO┬« D10)
56 PA3 QUADSPI_SCLK (Quad-SPI flash memory)
61 PH0 SPI1_NSS (SPI chip select of OLED display)
62 PH1 GPIO_SELECT2 (RGB LED/Infrared LED)
63 PD14 TIM_CH1 (ARDUINO┬« D3)
64 PE1 DRDY (Temperature sensor)
65 PD13 GPIO (ARDUINO┬« D8)
66 PD12 GPIO (ARDUINO┬« D2)
67 PD7 QUADSPI_BK1_IO3 (Quad-SPI flash memory)
68 PD2 INT signal for accelerometer-gyroscope sensor
69 PC9 D/C_DISP (data or ctrl OLED display)
70 PD3 QUADSPI_BK1_NCS (Quad-SPI flash memory)
71 PC7 TSC_G4_IO2 (Touchkey)
72 PE3 INT STMod+ (STMod+ pin 11)
73 PD4 SPI2_MOSI (STMod+ pin2)
74 PD9 INT signal for TimeŌĆæofŌĆæFlight sensor
75 PD8 STMod+ RESET (STMod+ pin 12)
76 PD15 TIM1_CH2 (ARDUINO┬« D9)
77 PD10 TSC_G6_IO1 (Touchkey)
78 PE2 GPIO_SELECT1 (Ctrl switch LPUART)
79 PE0 TIM16_CH1 (ARDUINO┬« D6)
80 PD5 QUADSPI_BK1_IO1 (Quad-SPI flash memory)
81 PD6 QUADSPI_BK1_IO2 (Quad-SPI flash memory)
82 PD11 TSC_G6_IO2 (Touchkey)
83 PC8 RST_DISP (OLED display reset)
UM2825
STM32WB5MM-DK I/O assignment
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 31/45
10 STM32WB5MM-DK product information
10.1 Product marking
The stickers located on the top or bottom side of all PCBs provide product information:
ŌĆó First sticker: product order code and product identification, generally placed on the main board featuring
the target device.
Example:
Product order code
Product identification
ŌĆó Second sticker: board reference with revision and serial number, available on each PCB.
Example:
MBxxxx-Variant-yzz
syywwxxxxx
On the first sticker, the first line provides the product order code, and the second line the product identification.
On the second sticker, the first line has the following format: ŌĆ£MBxxxx-Variant-yzzŌĆØ, where ŌĆ£MBxxxxŌĆØ is the board
reference, ŌĆ£VariantŌĆØ (optional) identifies the mounting variant when several exist, ŌĆ£yŌĆØ is the PCB revision, and ŌĆ£zzŌĆØ
is the assembly revision, for example B01. The second line shows the board serial number used for traceability.
Products and parts labeled as ŌĆ£ESŌĆØ or ŌĆ£EŌĆØ are not yet qualified or feature devices that are not yet qualified.
STMicroelectronics disclaims any responsibility for consequences arising from their use. Under no circumstances
will STMicroelectronics be liable for the customer's use of these engineering samples. Before deciding to use
these engineering samples for qualification activities, contact STMicroelectronics' quality department.
ŌĆ£ESŌĆØ or ŌĆ£EŌĆØ marking examples of location:
ŌĆó On the targeted STM32 that is soldered on the board (for an illustration of STM32 marking, refer to the
STM32 datasheet Package information paragraph at the www.st.com website).
ŌĆó Next to the evaluation tool ordering part number that is stuck, or silk-screen printed on the board.
Some boards feature a specific STM32 device version, which allows the operation of any bundled commercial
stack/library available. This STM32 device shows a ŌĆ£UŌĆØ marking option at the end of the standard part number
and is not available for sales.
To use the same commercial stack in their applications, the developers might need to purchase a part number
specific to this stack/library. The price of those part numbers includes the stack/library royalties.
UM2825
STM32WB5MM-DK product information
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 32/45
10.2 STM32WB5MM-DK product history
Table 21. Product history
Order
code
Product
identification Product details Product change description Product limitations
STM32WB5MM-DK
DK32WB5MM$GU1
Module:
ŌĆó STM32WB5MMG silicon
revision "Y"
Initial revision PB0/PB1 not available
MCU errata sheet:
ŌĆó STM32WB5MMG module
product errata (ES0525)
Board:
ŌĆó MB1292-WB5MM-B01
(main board)
DK32WB5MM$GU2
MCU:
ŌĆó STM32WB5MMG silicon
revision "X"
Main board revision changed No limitation
MCU errata sheet:
ŌĆó STM32WB5MMG module
product errata (ES0525)
Board:
ŌĆó MB1292-WB5MM-D01
(main board)
DK32WB5MM$GU3
MCU:
ŌĆó STM32WB5MMG silicon
revision "X"
Obtained SRRC certification No limitation
MCU errata sheet:
ŌĆó STM32WB5MMG module
product errata (ES0525)
Board:
ŌĆó MB1292-WB5MM-D01
(main board)
10.3 Board revision history
Table 22. Board revision history
Board reference Board variant and revision Board change description Board limitations
MB1292
(main board)
WB5MM-B01 Initial revision PB0/PB1 not available
WB5MM-D01
ŌĆó Component reference updates
due to obsolescence issues:
LD3 LED and HW1 shunt
ŌĆó Added to the BOM item list:
M1 plexiglass touchkey and
TA1 double-stick tape
No limitation
UM2825
STM32WB5MM-DK product information
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 33/45
11 Declaration of 2.4GHz IEEE 802.15.4 Compliance with Micropower
Device Regulations
UM2825
Declaration of 2.4GHz IEEE 802.15.4 Compliance with Micropower Device Regulations
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 34/45
12 Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and ISED Canada
Compliance Statements
12.1 FCC Compliance Statement
Identification of products: STM32WB5MM-DK.
Contains certified module from STMicroelectronics: STM32WB5MMG
FCC ID: YCP-32WB5MMGH02
Part 15.19
This device complies with Part 15 of the FCC Rules. Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) this
device may not cause harmful interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference received, including
interference that may cause undesired operation.
Part 15.21
Any changes or modifications to this equipment not expressly approved by STMicroelectronics may cause
harmful interference and void the user's authority to operate this equipment.
Part 15.105
This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class B digital device, pursuant to part
15 of the FCC Rules. These limits are designed to provide reasonable protection against harmful interference in a
residential installation. This equipment generates uses and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed
and used in accordance with the instruction, may cause harmful interference to radio communications. However,
there is no guarantee that interference will not occur in a particular installation. If this equipment does cause
harmful interference to radio or television reception which can be determined by turning the equipment off and on,
the user is encouraged to try to correct interference by one or more of the following measures:
ŌĆó Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna.
ŌĆó Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver.
ŌĆó Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit different from that to which the receiver is connected.
ŌĆó Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/TV technician for help.
Note: Use only shielded cables.
To satisfy FCC RF exposure requirements, a separation distance of 20 cm or more should be maintained between
the antenna of this device and persons during operation. To ensure compliance, operation at a closer distance
than this is not recommended. This transmitter must not be collocated or operating in conjunction with any other
antenna or transmitter.
Responsible Party ŌĆō U.S. Contact Information:
Francesco Doddo
STMicroelectronics, Inc.
200 Summit Drive | Suite 405 | Burlington, MA 01803
USA
Telephone: +1 781-472-9634
UM2825
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and ISED Canada Compliance Statements
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 35/45
12.2 ISED Compliance Statement
Identification of products: STM32WB5MM-DK
Contains certified module from STMicroelectronics: STM32WB5MMG
IC: 8976A-32WB5MMGH02
Identification du produit : STM32WB5MM-DK
Contient le module certifi├® de STMicroelectronics : STM32WB5MMG
CI : 8976A-32WB5MMGH02
Compliance Statement
Notice: This device complies with ISED Canada licence-exempt RSS standard(s). Operation is subject to the
following two conditions: (1) this device may not cause interference, and (2) this device must accept any
interference, including interference that may cause undesired operation of the device.
ISED Canada ICES-003 Compliance Label: CAN ICES-3 (B) / NMB-3 (B).
D├®claration de conformit├®
Avis: Le pr├®sent appareil est conforme aux CNR d'ISDE Canada applicables aux appareils radio exempts de
licence. L'exploitation est autoris├®e aux deux conditions suivantes : (1) l'appareil ne doit pas produire de
brouillage, et (2) l'utilisateur de l'appareil doit accepter tout brouillage radio├®lectrique subi, m├¬me si le brouillage
est susceptible d'en compromettre le fonctionnement.
├ētiquette de conformit├® ├Ā la NMB-003 d'ISDE Canada : CAN ICES-3 (B) / NMB-3 (B).
RF exposure statement
This device complies with ISED radiation exposure limits set forth for general population. This device must be
installed to provide a separation distance of at least 20 centimeters from all persons and must not be co-located
or operating in conjunction with any other antenna or transmitter.
Le pr├®sent appareil est conforme aux niveaux limites dŌĆÖexigences dŌĆÖexposition RF aux personnes d├®finies par
ISDE. LŌĆÖappareil doit ├¬tre install├® afin dŌĆÖoffrir une distance de s├®paration dŌĆÖau moins 20 centimetres avec les
personnes et ne doit pas ├¬tre install├® ├Ā proximit├® ou ├¬tre utilis├® en conjonction avec une autre antenne ou un
autre ├®metteur.
UM2825
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and ISED Canada Compliance Statements
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 36/45
13 UKCA Compliance Statement
SIMPLIFIED UK DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY
Hereby, the manufacturer STMicroelectronics, declares that the radio equipment type ŌĆ£STM32WB5MM-DKŌĆØ is in
compliance with the UK Radio Equipment Regulations 2017 (UK S.I. 2017 No. 1206). The full text of the UK
Declaration of Conformity is available at the following internet address: www.st.com.
UM2825
UKCA Compliance Statement
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 37/45
14 RED Compliance Statement
Simplified EU declaration of conformity
Hereby, STMicroelectronics declares that the radio equipment type "STM32WB5MM-DK" is in compliance with
Directive 2014/53/EU.
The full text of the EU declaration of conformity is available on demand at the following internet address:
www.st.com.
Frequence range used in transmission and maximal radiated power in this range:
ŌĆó Frequency range: 2400-2483.5 MHz (Bluetooth┬«)
ŌĆó Maximal power: 4 mW e.i.r.p
D├®claration de conformit├® UE simplifi├®e
STMicroelectronics d├®clare que l'├®quipement radio├®lectrique du type "STM32WB5MM-DK" est conforme ├Ā la
directive 2014/53/UE.
Le texte complet de la d├®claration UE de conformit├® est disponible sur demande ├Ā l'adresse internet suivante:
www.st.com.
Bande de fr├®quence utilis├®e en transmission et puissance maximale rayonn├®e dans cette bande :
ŌĆó Bande de fr├®quence : 2400-2483.5 MHz (Bluetooth┬«)
ŌĆó Puissance maximale : 4 mW p.i.r.e
UM2825
RED Compliance Statement
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 38/45
15 Product disposal
Disposal of this product: WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment)
(Applicable in Europe)
This symbol on the product, accessories, or accompanying documents indicates that the
product and its electronic accessories should not be disposed of with household waste at the
end of their working life.
To prevent possible harm to the environment and human health from uncontrolled waste
disposal, please separate these items from other type of waste and recycle them responsibly
to the designated collection point to promote the sustainable reuse of material resources.
Household users:
You should contact either the retailer where you buy the product or your local authority for
further details of your nearest designated collection point.
Business users:
You should contact your dealer or supplier for further information.
UM2825
Product disposal
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 39/45
Revision history
Table 23. Document revision history
Date Revision Changes
23-Apr-2021 1 Initial release.
09-Nov-2023 2
Document reshuffled to align with the latest standards, from Introduction to Section 12: Radio
Equipment Directive (RED) compliance statement.
Updated:
ŌĆó Figure 1, Figure 4, Figure 5, Figure 11, and Figure 20 board version
ŌĆó STM32WB5MM-DK product information including new Product history and Board revision
history tables
ŌĆó Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and ISED Canada Compliance Statements with
FCC ID and radio transmitter reference
Added Declaration of 2.4GHz IEEE 802.15.4 Compliance with Micropower Device Regulations.
10-Jul-2024 3 Updated Product history and Board revision history tables with the third main board revision.
14-Apr-2025 4 Added EDA resources, UKCA Compliance Statement, and Product disposal sections.
Updated frequency in LSE clock reference section.
UM2825
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 40/45
Contents
1 Features. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
2 Ordering information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
2.1 Codification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
3 Development environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
3.1 System requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
3.2 Development toolchains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
3.3 Demonstration software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
3.4 EDA resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
4 Conventions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
5 Safety recommendations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
5.1 Targeted audience. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
5.2 Handling the board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
5.3 Laser safety consideration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
6 Getting started . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
7 Hardware layout and configuration. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
7.1 Hardware block diagram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
7.2 Hardware board layout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
7.3 Mechanical drawing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
7.4 Embedded ST-LINK/V2-1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
7.4.1 Drivers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
7.4.2 ST-LINK/V2-1 firmware upgrade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
7.5 Power supply . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
7.5.1 General description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
7.5.2 7 to 12 V power supply . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
7.5.3 5 V power supply . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
7.5.4 Current measurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
7.6 Clock sources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
7.6.1 HSE clock reference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
7.6.2 LSE clock reference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
7.7 Reset sources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
7.8 Board functions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
7.8.1 128 ├Ś 64ŌĆæpixel OLED display. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
7.8.2 Quad-SPI NOR flash memory (U8) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
7.8.3 Virtual COM port . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
7.8.4 MEMS microphone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UM2825
Contents
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 41/45
7.8.5 LEDs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
7.8.6 Push-buttons. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
7.8.7 Touch sensor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
7.9 Embedded sensors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
7.9.1 I2C interface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
7.9.2 TimeŌĆæofŌĆæFlight (ToF) sensor (U6) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
7.9.3 3D accelerometer and 3D gyroscope sensor (U5). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
7.9.4 Temperature sensor (U4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
8 Board connectors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
8.1 ST-LINK/V2-1 USB Micro-B connector (CN11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
8.2 USB FS Micro-B connector (CN6) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
8.3 STMod+ connector (CN5) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
8.4 TAG10 TagŌĆæConnectŌäó footprint (CN7) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
8.5 ARDUINO┬« Uno V3 connector (CN1, CN2, CN3, and CN4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
8.5.1 Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
8.5.2 ARDUINO┬« operating voltage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
8.5.3 ARDUINO┬« interface and pinout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
9 STM32WB5MM-DK I/O assignment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
10 STM32WB5MM-DK product information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32
10.1 Product marking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
10.2 STM32WB5MM-DK product history . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
10.3 Board revision history . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
11 Declaration of 2.4GHz IEEE 802.15.4 Compliance with Micropower Device
Regulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34
12 Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and ISED Canada Compliance
Statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
12.1 FCC Compliance Statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
12.2 ISED Compliance Statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
13 UKCA Compliance Statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .37
14 RED Compliance Statement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
15 Product disposal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39
Revision history . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
List of tables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
List of figures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .44
UM2825
Contents
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 42/45
List of tables
Table 1. Ordering information. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Table 2. Codification explanation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Table 3. ON/OFF convention . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Table 4. JP2 power supply selector description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Table 5. Quad-SPI NOR flash memory (U8) connection with STM32WB5MMG . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Table 6. UART interface pinout description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Table 7. MEMSŌĆæSTM32WB5MMG SAI interface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Table 8. Physical user interface I/O configuration (pushŌĆæbuttons) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Table 9. Physical user interface I/O configuration (touch sensor) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Table 10. STM32WB5MMG I2C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Table 11. Sensor I2C addresses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Table 12. TimeŌĆæofŌĆæFlight sensor (U6) I2C address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Table 13. AcceleratorŌĆægyroscope sensor (U5) I2C address. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Table 14. Temperature sensor (U4) I2C address. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Table 15. USB Micro-B connector (CN11) pinout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Table 16. USB Micro-B connector (CN6) pinout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Table 17. STMod+ connector (CN5) pinout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Table 18. TAG10 TagŌĆæConnectŌäó footprint (CN7) pinout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Table 19. ARDUINO┬« connector pinout. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Table 20. STM32WB5MM-DK I/O assignment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Table 21. Product history . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Table 22. Board revision history . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Table 23. Document revision history . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UM2825
List of tables
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 43/45
List of figures
Figure 1. STM32WB5MM-DK Discovery kit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Figure 2. Class 1 laser product label . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Figure 3. STM32WB5MM-DK hardware block diagram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Figure 4. STM32WB5MM-DK PCB layout (top view) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Figure 5. STM32WB5MM-DK PCB layout (bottom view) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Figure 6. STM32WB5MM-DK board mechanical dimensions (top view, in millimeters) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Figure 7. USB Composite Device . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Figure 8. STM32WB5MM-DK power tree. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Figure 9. Current measurement with an ammeter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Figure 10. Current measurement with an external power supply . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Figure 11. LEDs location . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Figure 12. Direction, angle, and side operating. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Figure 13. 3D direction for acceleration and angular rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Figure 14. 3D accelerometer and 3D gyroscope (U5) pin 1 location . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Figure 15. STMod+ connector (CN5) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Figure 16. Top silkscreen STMod+ connector. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Figure 17. Bottom silkscreen STMod+ connector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Figure 18. TagŌĆæConnectŌäó footprint (CN7) pinout. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Figure 19. TC2050-IDC-NL cable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Figure 20. ARDUINO┬« Uno connectors and ARDUINO┬« shield location . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Figure 21. ARDUINO┬« pinout location. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UM2825
List of figures
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 44/45
IMPORTANT NOTICE ŌĆō READ CAREFULLY
STMicroelectronics NV and its subsidiaries (ŌĆ£STŌĆØ) reserve the right to make changes, corrections, enhancements, modifications, and improvements to ST
products and/or to this document at any time without notice. Purchasers should obtain the latest relevant information on ST products before placing orders. ST
products are sold pursuant to STŌĆÖs terms and conditions of sale in place at the time of order acknowledgment.
Purchasers are solely responsible for the choice, selection, and use of ST products and ST assumes no liability for application assistance or the design of
purchasersŌĆÖ products.
No license, express or implied, to any intellectual property right is granted by ST herein.
Resale of ST products with provisions different from the information set forth herein shall void any warranty granted by ST for such product.
ST and the ST logo are trademarks of ST. For additional information about ST trademarks, refer to www.st.com/trademarks. All other product or service names
are the property of their respective owners.
Information in this document supersedes and replaces information previously supplied in any prior versions of this document.
┬® 2025 STMicroelectronics ŌĆō All rights reserved
UM2825
UM2825 - Rev 4 page 45/45